So far you've learned
about tile coding,
but we haven't connected it
back to reinforcement
learning yet.
Well, the wait is finally over.
Today, we'll explain how to use
tile coding together
with linear TD.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to explain
how to use tile coding with
temporal difference learning and
identify important properties of
tile code representations.
The number of
active tiles is always
significantly less than
the number of total tiles.
We can use this to calculate
the value function efficiently.
Recall that with linear
function approximation,
the value function is
a dot product between
a weight vector and
a feature vector.
Let's see what
this dot product looks
like with a sparse binary
feature vector.
If we were to multiply the
two vectors element-wise,
many of the element-wise
products will be zero.
This means we only
have to consider
the weights at
the non-zero elements
of the feature vector because
the features are binary,
the weights at the
non-zero features
are multiplied by one.
Computing the dot product in
the usual way would be expensive.
Instead, we can just
sum the weights
corresponding to the
active features.
Note that this takes
a certain amount of time
because the number
of active features
is the same in every state.
The feature vectors
produced by tile coding may
query in the value function
cheap computationally.
Let's look an example
of value function
with tile coded features.
Suppose we're back
at the old pond with
two tilings of four tiles each.
We've color-coded the tilings and
each tiling square
is index as shown.
If the position of the fish
and a weight vector are as shown,
what is the value of
the fish's position?
We can see the fish intersects
square one belonging to
the purple tiling and square
four belonging to
the orange tiling.
This results in the falling
feature vector for this state.
Now we simply calculate
the state's value
with a dot product.
The feature vectors binary.
So we can just add
up the weights at
the locations with
non-zero features.
This gives us a value of two.
Now, let's run experiment with
tile coding and compare
it to state aggregation.
Recall, the tile coding is
effectively multiple instances of
state aggregation or tilings
layered on top of each other.
Our environment is the
1,000-state random walk.
The states are
numbered from 1-1,000
and all episodes
begin in state 500.
At each time step, the agent
randomly transitions to
one of the 200 neighboring
states on either side.
Overshooting states one or
1,000 will result in a transition
to the terminal state.
For example, look at
the possible transitions
to the left of state two,
one will go to state one
and the remaining 199 will
go to the terminal state.
Let's talk about how we can use
function approximation
in this problem.
We'll start with
state aggregation.
Let's use the state aggregation
with five groups,
each corresponding to 200 states.
Now, let's design a tile code for
this problem with 50 tilings.
We treat the 1,000 states
as an interval where
each tile corresponds
to 200 states.
Since each tile has 200 states,
you might think we only
need five tiles to
cover the full space
of 1,000 states.
However, each tiling is slightly
shifted or offset
from the others.
An extra tile is needed to
cover the space left uncovered.
Because of this,
each of our tilings
contains six tiles
rather than five.
Let's compare these two
function approximators
with gradient Monte Carlo.
The step size parameter Alpha is
scaled by the number
of active features;
50 for tile coding and one
for state aggregation.
Let's look at the results.
We plot the value error averaged
over 30 runs after each episode.
Both agents learn quickly
due to aggressive generalization.
However, the tile code
representation is able to better
discriminate between states and
achieves a lower value error.
It's interesting that even though
the tile coder has
many more parameters,
it can learn just as quickly
as the core state aggregation.
But it also achieves
better discrimination because
of the small intersections
created by multiple
overlapping tiles.
That's it for today.
In this video, we
talked about how
tile coding can be used to
approximate value functions
and policy valuation and we
compare tile coding to
state aggregation in
the simple example.
Next time, we're
going to move beyond
fixed representations and begin
learning representations
with neural networks.